.TH nescc 1 "April 27, 2004"
.LO 1
.SH NAME
nescc - nesC compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBnescc\fR [\fB-gcc=\fIgcc-name\fR] [\fB-mingw-gcc\fR] [\fB-fnesc-target=\fIarchitecture\fR]
    [\fB-docdir=\fIdir\fR] [\fB-topdir=\fIdir\fR] [\fB-graphviz=y\fI|\fBn\fR]
    [\fB-fnesc-simulate\fR] 
    [\fB-fnesc-nido-tosnodes=\fIn\fR] [\fB-fnesc-nido-motenumber=\fIexpression\fR]
    [\fB-conly\fR] [\fB-fnesc-cfile=\fIfile\fR] [\fB-fnesc-gccize\fR]
    [\fB-fnesc-cppdir=\fIdirectory\fR] [\fB-fnesc-separator=\fIseparator\fR]
    [\fB-fnesc-no-inline\fR] [\fB-fnesc-optimize-atomic\fR]
    [\fB--version\fR] [\fB-fnesc-verbose\fR] [\fB-Wnesc-\fI...\fR]
    [\fB-fnesc-dump=\fIspecification\fR] [\fB-fnesc-dumpfile=\fIfile\fR]
    [\fB-fnesc-scheduler=\fIspecification\fR]
    [any gcc option] \fIfiles\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBnescc\fR is an extension to \fBgcc\fR that knows how to compile nesC
applications. If invoked on regular C files, it behaves exactly like
\fBgcc\fR. When invoked on a nesC component or interface (\fB.nc\fR
extension) file it compiles and links (except if the \fB-c\fR,
\fB-S\fR, \fB-conly\fR, \fB-E\fR or \fB-fsyntax-only\fR options are used) that component
with the other files specified on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS

\fBnescc\fR accepts all \fBgcc\fR options, and some additional nesC
specific options:
.TP
\fB-gcc=\fIgcc-name\fR
Specify which gcc compiler to use to compile and link any C files, either
explicitly specified, or generated as the output of the nesC-to-C compiler.
This option supports cross-compilation of nesC code (the usual mode of
operation...).
.TP
\fB-mingw-gcc\fR
Pass this option if the gcc version specified with \fB-gcc=...\fR was
compiled for Window's mingw environment, and hence expects Windows-style
rather than Unix-style paths.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-target=\fIarchitecture\fR
Specify the target architecture to compile for. Currently supported
platforms are \fBavr\fR (the Atmel AVR family), \fBmsp430\fR (the TI MSP430
family) and \fBself\fR (the machine the nesC compiler is running on).
If you use the \fBenv\fR target, the architecture details are read from
the \fBNESC_MACHINE\fR environment variable. See the separate env target
documentation for details.
.TP
\fB-docdir=\fIdir\fR 
Generate documentation for the compiled component in directory \fIdir\fR.
.TP
\fB-topdir=\fIdir\fR 
Specify directory paths that should be stripped from the source file names
when generating "package names" for the documentation files.
.TP
\fB-graphviz=y\fR|\fBn\fR 
Explicitly enable or disable the use of the graphviz tool in the generated
documentation. Without this option, graphviz is enabled iff the \fBdot\fR
program is found in the current path. Use of graphviz requires \fBdot\fR.  The
documentation generation tool checks the version of \fBdot\fR, and enables
client-side image maps, if supported.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-simulate\fR
Compile for a simulation environment.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-nido-tosnodes=\fIn\fR, \fB-fnesc-nido-motenumber=\fIexpression\fR
When \fB-fnesc-simulate\fR is specified, the nesC program is compiled for a
simulation environment, where a single executable will simulate \fIn\fR
nodes. Specifically, in the generated code, each global variable becomes an
\fIn\fR element array, and all accesses to global variables are indexed
with \fIexpression\fR.
.TP
\fB-conly\fR
Just compile to C, leaving the generated source code for top-level-component
\fIcomp.nc\fR in C file \fIcomp.c\fR (except if the \fB-fnesc-cfile\fR
option is specified).
.TP
\fB-fnesc-cfile=\fIfile\fR 
Specify a file in which to save the C code generated when compiling a
component. Note: if you specify two components on the command line, then
the C code from the second one will overwrite the C code from the first.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-gccize\fR
Output target-specific extensions as gcc-style attributes rather than using
the target's original syntax. Can help if using \fB-conly\fR and sending the
nesC output from some other tool that understands gcc attributes but not the
target-specific extensions.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-cppdir=\fIdirectory\fR
Save all preprocessing results in \fIdirectory\fR. The directory is created
if it doesn't exist. This can be helpful to track down preprocessor-related
compilation problems. You probably want to ensure that \fIdirectory\fR is
empty when you call \fBnescc\fR, to make it obvious which files where
preprocessed as part of the current compilation.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-separator=\fIseparator\fR
Set separator used to create symbol names in the generated C code (default $).
The compiler needs to generate unique names to denote, e.g., a module
variable. It does this by concatenating various symbol names to ensure that
it generates unique names. For instance, variable \fBbar\fR in module 
\fBMaz\fR becomes a global C variable \fBMaz$bar\fR in the compiler output.
Some C compilers do not like $ in symbol names, so you can specify a 
different separator, e.g., \fB__\fR (leading to generated symbols like
\fBMaz__bar\fR). 

You will get a compile-time warning if any symbol in the program being
compiled contains the separator you specify (the presence of the
separator in a symbol could lead to the generation of incorrect code).
The separator can however start or end a symbol.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-no-inline\fR
Disabled the automatic inlining of all small functions, and of all functions
with a single call site.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-optimize-atomic\fR
Optimize atomic statements [EXPERIMENTAL]: reduce or remove the overhead
of atomic statements in simple cases (e.g., single-byte reads).
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Print the version of \fBnescc\fR and of the selected gcc compiler
(see \fB-gcc\fR).
.TP
\fB-fnesc-include=\fIheader-file\fR
Include the specified file before compiling a nesC component. Behaves
as if \fBincludes \fIheader-file\fB;\fR was included at the start of
that component.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-dump=\fIspecification\fR
Output information on the compiled programs structure, and in particular
its user-specified attributes. For more details, see the separate nesC
dump documentation.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-dumpfile=\fIfile\fR
Where to output the information requested by \fB-fnesc-dump\fR. Defaults to
stdout.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-verbose\fR
Be more verbose than \fB-v\fR.
.TP
\fB-fnesc-scheduler=\fIcomponent\fR,\fIunique-string\fR,\fIinterface-name\fR,\fIinterface-definition\fR,\fIrun-event\fR,\fIpost-command\fR
By default, nesC compiles uses of \fBtask void \fItaskname\fB() ...\fR to
\fBvoid \fItaskname\fB()\fR, and \fBpost \fItaskname()\fR to
\fBTOS_post(\fItaskname\fB)\fR. 

With this option, each task gets its own \fIinterface-definition\fR
interface, the task implementation is transformed into a \fIrun-event\fR
event and posts becomes a call to the \fIpost-command\fR command. This
per-task interface is automatically connected to the parameterised
\fIinterface-name\fR interface of scheduler component \fIcomponent\fR. The
parameter id for the connection is chosen with
\fBunique("\fIunique-string\fB")\fR.
.PP
There are a number of warnings specific to nesC, specified with
\fB-Wnesc-\fR (all these warnings are off by
default):
.TP
\fB-Wnesc-fnptr\fR
Warn when function pointers are used (use of function pointers is
deprecated in nesC and leads to inaccurate data race detection).
.TP
\fB-Wnesc-async\fR 
Warn when interrupt handlers call commands or events not annotated with
\fBasync\fR.
.TP
\fB-Wnesc-data-race\fR
Warn about potential data races.
.TP
\fB-Wnesc-combine\fR
Warn when configuration wiring leads to "fan-out" and the function return
type does not have a combining function defined.
.TP
\fB-Wnesc-docstring\fR
Warn when unexpected documentation strings (starting with \fB/**\fR) are
seen.
.TP
\fB-Wnesc-all\fR
Turns on \fB-Wnesc-fnptr\fR, \fB-Wnesc-async\fR, \fB-Wnesc-combine\fR 
and\fB-Wnesc-data-race\fR.
.TP
\fB-Wnesc-error\fR
Turns the \fB-Wnesc-fnptr\fR, \fB-Wnesc-async\fR, \fB-Wnesc-combine\fR and
\fB-Wnesc-data-race\fR warnings into errors.
.PP
When compiling a nesC component, the nesC compiler recognizes the gcc C
language (\fB-f...\fR) and warning (\fB-W...\fR) options. The \fB-S\fR,
\fB-c\fR and \fB-o\fR options work as usual, the \fB-x\fR option accepts
\fBnesc\fR. The \fB-v\fR option causes the nesC compiler to print out the
paths of all components and interfaces that are loaded. Directories can be
added to nesC\fRs search path with \fB-I\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES

If you wish to compile a component Bar.nc to a C file, you can do:
.IP
nescc -c -o /dev/null -fnesc-cfile=Bar.c Bar.nc
.SH PREPROCESSOR SYMBOLS

\fBnescc\fR defines the following preprocessor symbol:
.TP
\fBNESC\fR (since v1.1) 
set to XYZ where x.yz is the nesC version
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP
.B NESCPATH 
A colon separated list of additional search directories for
nesC components.
.SH SEE ALSO

.IR gcc (1),
platform-specific gcc
.SH NOTES

The warnings for the new nesC 1.1 features (see \fB-Wnesc-all\fR) are off
by default to increase compatibility with nesC 1.0 code. To match the
language specification in the nesC 1.1 reference manual, you should compile
with \fB-Wnesc-all\fR and \fB-Wnesc-error\fR. These options will become the
default in future releases.
